Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

Expert Systems With Applications
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/eswa

Few-shot font generation via denoising diffusion and component-level 
fine-grained style 

Yu Liu a,b, Yang Ding c, Fatimah Binti Khalid b, Cunrui Wang a,∗, Lei Wang b

aDalian Chinese Font Design Technology Innovation Center, Dalin Minzu University, 116600, Dalian, China
b Faculty of Computer Science and Information Technology, University Putra Malaysia, 43400 UPM, Serdang, Malaysia
c School of Computer Science and Technology, Changchun University of Science and Technology, 130022, Jilin, China

a r t i c l e  i n f o  a b s t r a c t

Keywords: Few-shot font generation aims to create new fonts using a small number of style examples. It is increasingly gain-
Diffusion model ing attention due to its significant reduction in labor costs. Existing methods rely on GAN-based image-to-image 
Few-shot font generation style-transfer frameworks, which are prone to training collapse and struggle to maintain consistency between 
Deformable convolution character content and style. Moreover, they capture only the global style while overlooking fine-grained features 
Attention mechanism

of radicals, components, and strokes. To address these challenges, we propose a diffusion model-based image-
to-image font generation method .We fully consider the component styles between content glyphs and reference 
glyphs, assigning appropriate fine-grained styles to content glyphs through a multi-character style aggregation 
module. Additionally, in order to better preserve the integrity of character structures during the denoising it-
eration process, we propose leveraging an offset-enhanced multi-head attention mechanism. This mechanism 
adaptively samples and embeds multi-scale glyph content features into the diffusion model. Comprehensive ex-
periments demonstrate that our method outperforms existing font generation methods both qualitatively and 
quantitatively.

1.  Introduction leverage prior knowledge, such as the strokes or component composition 
of characters, to facilitate font generation (Cha et al., 2020; Kong et al., 

A font is a set of characters with a consistent style, playing a crucial 2022; Park et al., 2021a). However, these methods not only rely on a 
role in printing and media. Traditional methods of creating font libraries large number of paired samples but also require retraining the model 
heavily rely on professional designers to individually draw each glyph, for each new font, making efficient font generation impractical (Wang 
which is especially expensive and labor-intensive for logographic lan- et al., 2025).
guages such as Chinese, Japanese, and Korean. In the field of computer To address the end-to-end font generation problem, some studies 
vision and multimedia, automated font design remains a challenging have combined adversarial training (Yi et al., 2017) with consistency 
problem. constraints (Zhu et al., 2017) to propose few-shot font generation (FFG) 

Over the years, deep generative models have advanced the field of solutions for font generation (Park et al., 2021b; Xie et al., 2021). Based 
font generation. Font generation is regarded as an image-to-image (I2I) on the explicit disentanglement of content and style, FFG research can 
translation task (Isola et al., 2017), where the model aims to learn a be divided into two different types: global style representation and 
mapping function between the source domain and the target domain, component style representation. The former models glyph styles as a 
retaining the content information of the source font and transforming universal representation for each font (Gao et al., 2019; Liu et al., 
it into the target style. Some studies adopt a conditional GAN (Goodfel- 2019), extracting style features by randomly selecting a style font im-
low et al., 2014) framework, generating raster font images containing age during training. The latter (Huang et al., 2020; Park et al., 2021a,b) 
9169 characters in an end-to-end manner by learning the styles of a decomposes the font style into independent, smaller parts or compo-
small number (about 500) of manually designed reference font images nents extracted from different reference instances of the same font. In 
(Yu et al., 2024b; Zeng et al., 2021; Zeng & Pan, 2022). Other methods global style representation, the style tends to become smoother or more 

∗ Corresponding author.
 E-mail addresses: gs64481@upm.edu.my (Y. Liu), 2023200170@mails.cust.edu.cn (Y. Ding), fatimahk@upm.edu.my (F.B. Khalid), wcr@dlnu.edu.cn (C. Wang), 
gs68810@student.upm.edu.my (L. Wang).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2025.128987
Received 11 February 2025; Received in revised form 12 June 2025; Accepted 9 July 2025
Available online 20 July 2025 
0957-4174/© 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. 



Y. Liu et al. Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

blurred; whereas component-level representation only integrates within 2.  Related work
the same part, keeping different parts independent. This component-
level style avoids the loss of detail caused by the averaging effect in 2.1.  Few-shot font generation
global style representation (Kong et al., 2022; Park et al., 2021b). How-
ever, these methods are based on the GAN framework, where the target Image-to-image (I2I) translation aims to learn a mapping function 
style is usually learned and represented by a simple classifier or dis- between the source and target domains that retains the content of the 
criminator, making the model prone to collapse during large-span style source image while incorporating the style of the target domain (Kim 
transfers. & Choi, 2021; Ko et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2023). Font generation is a 

The denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM) (Ho et al., 2020) typical I2I translation task because it seeks to retain the content informa-
has been proposed for learning to restore target data distributions cor- tion of the source font and map it to the target style font. Many previous 
rupted by a forward diffusion process. They have achieved great success end-to-end font generation methods have been based on I2I translation 
in image generation. Some initial studies on image generation based on methods (Gao & Wu, 2020; Hassan et al., 2021; Jiang et al., 2019; Wen 
diffusion models (Dhariwal & Nichol, 2021; Gao et al., 2023) have con- et al., 2021a). However, these methods require extensive paired training 
firmed the powerful performance of DDPM in generative tasks. Condi- supervision and are not scalable for generating new style fonts. Recently, 
tional diffusion models incorporate conditional constraints such as class font generation methods have evolved towards FFG methods. FFG meth-
labels, text descriptions, or images into DDPMs, enabling control over ods decompose font images into content and style features, generating 
the generation process (Hwang et al., 2024; Rombach et al., 2022; Sa- new fonts through a few reference glyphs.
haria et al., 2022). Compared to GANs, diffusion models learn to gener- FFG methods can be categorized into two types based on the repre-
ate samples based on the distribution characteristics of the data itself sentation of style features: global feature representation and component-
through a step-by-step denoising process, thereby avoiding the com- based feature representation. In global feature representation methods, 
mon training instability challenges in GANs. However, in the high-noise AGISNet (Gao et al., 2019) and EMD (Zhang et al., 2018) integrate style 
phase of the diffusion model, the output is almost dominated by random and content features through a bilinear model to generate fonts. DG-
noise, making it difficult to accurately restore the content features of the Font (Xie et al., 2021) employs Deformable Convolution to enhance the 
characters; while in later iterations, excessively injecting content infor- model’s performance in generating complex cursive characters. Deep-
mation weakens the quality of the reconstructed font image (Fu et al., CalliFont (Liu & Lian, 2024) integrates bimodal generation models to 
2024; Yang et al., 2024). synthesize calligraphy fonts with a limited number of Chinese charac-

In this paper, we propose a diffusion-based image-to-image few-shot ters. FontGAN (Liu et al., 2022) integrates stylization, destylization, and 
font generation method, modeling font generation as a noise-to-noise texture transformation of character structures into a unified framework, 
paradigm that can generate unseen characters and styles. We selected improving the quality of generated results. However, these methods tend 
300 Chinese characters as the style reference character set based on to split the style and content of the image either globally or by compo-
the coverage of Chinese character components. We then designed a nents and average the extracted features when receiving multiple style 
content-style reference mapping, considering the component styles be- images. This process weakens local details due to separation and aver-
tween content glyphs and reference glyphs, and selected 𝐾 style ref- aging operations.
erence characters for each content character. Finally, through a fine- In component-based feature representation studies, ZiGAN (Wen 
grained style aggregation (FGSA) module module, the styles of the 𝐾 et al., 2021b) uses paired samples of different character styles to cap-
reference characters are transferred to the content character. In the ture fine-grained correlations between different glyph structures, better 
early stages of the denoising iteration, the model’s input contains a capturing structural information. LF-Font (Park et al., 2021a) designs a 
significant amount of noise and lacks effective content information, component-conditional reference encoder to extract component features 
making it difficult to guide the attention mechanism to focus on the from reference images. VQ-Font (Yao et al., 2024) combines structural 
relevant style features. Therefore, we design the deformable attention components such as radicals and glyph parts in a specific arrangement 
content aggregation (DACA) module, which adaptively embeds multi- to recalibrate fine-grained styles based on the reference. However, these 
scale glyph content features into the diffusion model at different sam- methods require substantial preparatory work for training data, increas-
pling stages. Our method outperforms the compared font generation ing the complexity of the font generation task and being unfavorable 
methods in both SFUC and UFUC dataset settings (Liu et al., 2024; for generating new style fonts. We set up a character set composed of a 
Tang et al., 2022). Additionally, our method can be applied to cross- small number of characters as a style reference set and allocate 𝑘 style 
language generation tasks. We summarize the main contributions as reference characters for each character based on the component styles 
follows: between content and style characters. This approach not only reduces 

the workload of preparatory data but also improves the flexibility of 
generating new style fonts.

• We designed a diffusion model-based few-shot font generation model 2.2.  Diffusion model
capable of generating font images with any style-content com-
bination. The code is public at: https://github.com/ethanliuyu/ Sohl-Dickstein et al. (2015) introduced diffusion probabilistic mod-
DiffuFont. els by formulating a multi-step Markovian forward process that grad-

• We curated a style reference set containing a small number of char- ually corrupts real data with Gaussian noise, ultimately transforming 
acters and thoroughly considered the component styles between con- it into a simple prior distribution. The data generation process is mod-
tent glyphs and reference glyphs, matching the best style reference eled as the reverse of this diffusion, implemented via learning a reverse 
characters for each Chinese character. Markov chain that progressively reconstructs data samples from noise. 

• We proposed a multi-character style aggregation module, which Building upon this framework, Ho et al. (2020) proposed the denois-
learns fine-grained local styles at the component level between style ing diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM), which reframes the learning 
and content glyphs, transferring detailed style features from refer- objective around denoising, thereby substantially simplifying training 
ence characters to content characters. and achieving state-of-the-art performance in image generation tasks. 

• We propose the deformable attention content aggregation module, Compared to GAN, diffusion models produce higher quality images and 
which adaptively embeds glyph content features into the diffusion exhibit better training stability. Consequently, they have garnered in-
model by applying offset-enhanced multi-head attention at different creasing attention in the field of image synthesis. Building on this, 
sampling stages. the introduction of conditional constraints has further expanded their

2 



Y. Liu et al. Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

application scope, allowing models to generate corresponding outputs 3.  Method
based on specific input conditions. Currently, conditional diffusion mod-
els are widely used in tasks ranging from text-to-image generation. 3.1.  Method overview
CTIG-DM (Zhu et al., 2023) introduces four types of text-image gen-
eration modes in the diffusion model, using images, text, and styles as As shown in Fig. 1, our goal is to train a conditional diffusion model 
conditions. DEADiff (Qi et al., 2024) proposes a mechanism to decouple so that the output image not only has the same content as 𝑥𝑐 but also 
the style and semantics of the reference image, achieving an optimal aligns with the reference style (cf. Section 3.2). In the conditional diffu-
balance between the inherent text controllability of text-to-image mod- sion model, given the content image 𝑥𝑐 , we first select 𝑘 style reference 
els and the style similarity to the reference image. Although the above characters for each content character based on a content-style reference 
methods have made remarkable achievements in image generation, they mapping (cf. Section 3.3). The styles from these 𝑘 reference characters 
generally focus on generating based on global styles or under the guid- are transferred to the content character through a FGSA module (cf. 
ance of text prompts. Section 3.4) . During the iterative denoising process, to maintain the 

Due to its ability to generate higher-quality images and better train- consistency of the character content, we design a DACA module that 
ing stability, it has gradually been applied in the field of Chinese font injects multi-scale global and local content features into the encoder of 
generation. Diff-Font (He et al., 2024) introduces stroke or component the U-Net in the diffusion model (cf. Section 3.5).
inputs as fine-grained conditions in the diffusion model to generate 
fonts. Fontdiffuser (Yang et al., 2024) handles complex characters and 3.2.  Conditional diffusion for font generation
large-scale style variations by introducing a multi-scale content aggre-
gation module and style contrast optimization module. MSD-Font (Fu Our model employs U-Net as the generator. The diffusion process 
et al., 2024) proposes an efficient two-stage diffusion model to gener- consists of two phases: forward diffusion and backward diffusion. We 
ate stylized font images from limited reference samples. However, these consider real images determined by two attributes, content 𝑥𝑐 and 
methods have not yet considered the uniqueness of the font genera- style 𝑥𝑠, as samples in the training data distribution, denoted as 𝑥0 ∼

( )

tion task. Font generation not only requires precise style transforma- 𝑞 𝑥0 ∣ 𝑓 (𝑥𝑐 , 𝑥𝑠) . During the forward diffusion process, within a total of 
tion but also must maintain consistency in character content. In the 𝑇  time steps, random Gaussian noise   is gradually added to the real 
early stages of diffusion model iteration, noise dominates, making it image 𝑥0 to transition it from a stable state to a chaotic state.
difficult to reconstruct the character content. In the later stages, ex- Subsequently, through the inverse process of a long Markov Chain, 
cessive content injection weakens the quality of the reconstructed font we can progressively restore from an isotropic Gaussian noise image 𝑥𝑇
image (Fu et al., 2024; Yang et al., 2024). In our approach, we use back to the original real image 𝑥0.
an adaptive fusion parameter-controlled content aggregation module, 𝑇

∏
( ) ( )

which strengthens content guidance to aggregate style features in the 𝑞 𝑥1∶𝑇 ∣ 𝑥0 ∶= 𝑞 𝑥𝑡 ∣ 𝑥𝑡−1 , (1)
early noise-dominated stage, and weakens content injection in the later 𝑡=1
stages when clean signals dominate, avoiding content interference with ( )

√
( )

𝑞 𝑥
style aggregation. 𝑡 ∣ 𝑥𝑡−1 =  𝑥𝑡; 1 − 𝛽𝑡𝑥𝑡−1, 𝛽𝑡I , (2)

where 𝑡 ∈ {1,… , 𝑇 } and 𝛽1 < … < 𝛽𝑇  are predefined parameters used 
to control the mean and variance of the noise. Based on Eq. (2), we can 
obtain an image 𝑥𝑡 at any time step.

2.3.  Attention mechanism ( )

√ √ √ √

𝑥𝑡 = 𝛼̄𝑡𝑥0 + 1 − 𝛼̄𝑡𝜖𝑡 ∼  𝑥𝑡; 𝛼̄𝑡𝑥0, 1 − 𝛼̄𝑡I , (3)
The attention mechanism plays a crucial role in the field of artificial ∏

where 𝛼 𝑡
intelligence. It was initially introduced to handle sequential tasks, im- 𝑡 = 1 − 𝛽𝑡,𝛼̄𝑡 = 𝑠=1 𝛼𝑠.

Since the forward process is a linear Gaussian chain, the conditional 
proving neural networks’ ability to manage long-distance dependencies. posterior of 𝑥
In traditional neural networks structures, models often lose long-range 𝑡−1 given 𝑥𝑡 and the clean image 𝑥0 admits a closed-form 

expression. Applying Bayes’ rule and completing the square yields:
contextual information when processing sequential data. The Trans-

( ) ( )

former model proposed by Vaswani et al. (2017) utilizes self-attention 𝑞 𝑥𝑡−1 ∣ 𝑥𝑡, 𝑥0 =  𝑥𝑡−1; 𝜇̃𝑡(𝑥𝑡, 𝑥0), 𝛽𝑡𝐈 , (4)
mechanisms, allowing the model to consider the entire sequence’s in- where the posterior mean and variance are given by :
formation when processing each element, significantly enhancing its 

√ √

capability to handle long-distance dependencies. The Attention Mech- 𝛼𝑡𝛽𝑡 𝛼̄ (1 − 𝛼 )
𝜇̃

anism is widely applied not only in natural language processing but 𝑡(𝑥𝑡, 𝑥0) = 𝑥 + 𝑡−1 𝑡 1 − 𝛼̄
𝑥 , 𝛽 = 𝑡−1 𝛽 . (5)

1 − 𝛼̄ 0
𝑡 1 − 𝛼̄ 𝑡 𝑡

𝑡 1 − 𝛼̄ 𝑡
𝑡

also in various visual tasks, including font generation (Jia et al., 2021; In the backward diffusion process , we perform denoising on the 
Li et al., 2022; Yang et al., 2023). RDGAN (Huang et al., 2020) uses isotropic Gaussian noise 𝑥𝑇  conditioned on a latent variable 𝑧. This la-
the attention mechanism to extract coarse radicals from content char- tent variable 𝑧 represents features extracted by content and style en-
acters and render them in the target style. HWT (Bhunia et al., 2021) coders. Through iterative denoising of 𝑥𝑇 , we ultimately obtain new 
employs transformer blocks to bridge the gap between images and text, data that conforms to specific styles and contents. This process ensures 
enabling the generation of stylized handwritten English text images. that the generated data not only follows the given noise pattern but also 
Deepvecfont-v2 (Wang et al., 2023b) significantly enhances the model’s accurately reflects the content and style information provided by the 
ability and stability to synthesize long and complex contours by utiliz- encoders.
ing the attention mechanism. Yu et al. (2024a) synthesize high-quality The inverse process involves computing the posterior distribution 
vector fonts by comprehensively using sequence and image modalities ( )

𝑞 𝑥𝑡−1 ∣ 𝑥𝑡  over the entire dataset, which is computationally infeasible. 
through the attention mechanism. Elegantly Written (Liu et al., 2024) )

Therefore, we approximate the posterior distribution (

𝑞 𝑥𝑡−1 ∣ 𝑥𝑡  with a 
and EHW-font (Lei et al., 2025) aggregate style features for content )

trainable neural network modeled distribution (

𝑝𝜃 𝑥𝑡−1 ∣ 𝑥𝑡 , expressed 
glyphs via cross-attention. In these methods, the attention mechanism as:
helps models capture critical information, thereby improving overall ( ) ( ( ) ( ))

performance and efficiency. In our approach, the attention mechanism 𝑝𝜃 𝑥𝑡−1 ∣ 𝑥𝑡, 𝑧 =  𝜇𝜃 𝑥𝑡, 𝑡, 𝑧 ,Σ𝜃 𝑥𝑡, 𝑡, 𝑧 , (6)
embeds font content and style features into the U-Net of the diffusion where 𝜇𝜃 and Σ𝜃 represent the predicted mean and variance of the noise.
model, guiding the model to generate fonts with arbitrary style-content To simplify the model, we set the variance as a constant and train 
combinations. the model to learn the mean. To recover denoised data, most methods 

3 



Y. Liu et al. Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

Fig. 1. Overview of our proposed method. Our conditional diffusion model is based on the U-Net architecture, with the conditioning network comprising a content 
encoder 𝐸𝑐 and a style encoder 𝐸𝑠. We select 𝑘 style reference characters for the content character through content-style reference mapping. The FGSA module 
extracts style features from these 𝑘 style reference characters and integrates multi-scale reference styles into the fine-grained style representation of the given content 
image. To enhance the structural integrity of the characters, we propose the DACA module, which injects multi-scale global and local content features into the U-Net 
of the diffusion model.

(

subtract the estimated noise )

𝜖𝜃 𝑥𝑡, 𝑡  from the noisy data at time 𝑡. To where 𝜇 and 𝜎 are the mean and standard deviation of 𝑧′ respectively, 
adapt to font generation tasks, our model directly estimates the final tar- ⊙ denotes the Hadamard product. Our optimization objective is:

(

get result )

𝑥̂0 𝑥𝑡, 𝑡, 𝜃  at each time step, potentially enhancing the quality [ ]

( ) 2
of generated images and reducing error accumulation during the gener- MSE = 𝔼 ‖

𝑡,𝑥 ‖𝑥0 − 𝑥̂0 𝑥𝑡, 𝑡, 𝜃
‖

‖ . (10)
0
‖ ‖

ation process.
Replacing 𝑥0 in 𝜇̃𝑡 with its model prediction 𝑥̂0(𝑥𝑡, 𝑡, 𝜃) and drawing During training, 𝑇  is set to 1000 steps. During inference, DDIM (Song 

a single sample from the Gaussian posterior leads to et al., 2021) is used to accelerate the sampling process. First, we sam-
[

ple a subsequence ]

𝜏 = 𝜏𝑠, 𝜏𝑠−1,… , 𝜏1  from 𝐿 = [𝑇 , 𝑇 − 1,… , 1], where 
√

( ( ))

𝑥𝑡−1 = 𝜇̃𝑡 𝑥𝑡, 𝑥̂0 𝑥𝑡, 𝑡, 𝜃 + 𝛽𝑡 𝜖𝑡, 𝜖𝑡 ∼  (𝟎, 𝐈), (7) the length of dim(𝜏) << dim(𝐿). We construct the subsequence linearly 
as 𝜏𝑖 = ⌊𝑐𝑖⌋, where 𝑐 = 10. Sampling is then performed according to the 

Collecting the coefficients of 𝑥̂0 and 𝑥𝑡 in the above expression yields the constructed sequence 𝜏. DDIM chooses to use a deterministic sampling 
practical update that we employ to approximate the inverse diffusion path, i.e., setting the variance term to zero or a constant, further simpli-
step: fying the sampling process.

√ DDIM introduces a noise-scaling parameter 𝜂 ∈ [0, 1] that controls 
( )

√ √

𝛼̄
𝑥𝑡−1 =

𝑡−1𝛽𝑡 𝛼𝑡 1 − 𝛼̄
( ) 𝑡−1 1 − 𝛼̄

𝑥̂ 𝑥 , 𝑡, 𝜃 + 𝑥 + 𝑡−1
1 − 𝛼̄ 0 𝑡 𝛽

𝑡 1 − 𝛼̄ 𝑡 𝜖 . (8) the amount of stochasticity injected at each step; setting 𝜂 = 0 leads to 
𝑡 1 − 𝛼̄ 𝑡 𝑡

𝑡 a deterministic trajectory that preserves all forward marginals. Substi-
tuting 𝑥̂0 into the generic DDIM update and simplifying yields the coef-

During the iterative process, the model needs to optimize the current ficients:
diffusion step. We use Adaptive Layer Normalization(AdaLN) (Peebles 

√ √

& Xie, 2023) to incorporate the diffusion timestep 𝑡 into the model. For 𝛼̄𝜏 √ 1 − 𝛼̄
𝑎𝑖 =

𝑖−1 𝜏
the features 𝑧′ output by different layers of the U-Net, the timestep 𝑡 is , 𝑏

𝛼̄ 𝑖 = 1 − 𝛼̄𝜏 − 𝑖 , (11)
𝑖−1

𝜏 𝛼̄
𝑖 𝜏𝑖

used with an MLP to learn modulation parameters 𝛾 and 𝛽, which adjust 
the normalized features 𝑧′ to inject timestep information. which define the following recursive sampling scheme:

√ √

( )

𝑧′ − 𝜇 𝛼̄ ⎛
√ 1 − 𝛼̄ ⎞

𝜏 𝜏
AdaLN(𝑧′, 𝑡) = 𝛾(𝑡)⊙ + 𝛽(𝑡), (9) 𝑥𝜏 = 𝑖−1 𝑥̂ , , 𝜃 +

𝑖− 𝛼̄ 0(𝑥𝜏 𝜏
1 𝑖 𝑖 ) ⎜ 1 − 𝛼̄ ⎟

𝜏 − 𝑖 𝑥𝜏 . (12)
𝜎 𝑖−1

⎜ 𝛼̄ 𝑖
𝜏 𝜏 ⎟

𝑖 𝑖
⎝ ⎠

4 



Y. Liu et al. Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

3.3.  Style reference character selection steps. After selecting 𝑘 style reference glyphs for each content glyph 𝑐𝑖, 
the style reference set 𝑆 is sorted according to usage frequency to ensure 

In the FFG method, the model randomly selects one or more char- that each style character has the opportunity to be selected. Through 
acters from a style reference set at each iteration. While this approach this process, 𝑘 corresponding style reference glyphs are selected for each 
increases the model’s robustness, it also poses challenges. Due to the content glyph. An example of style reference glyph selection is shown 
random selection of style references, the model struggles to effectively in Fig. 2(b). The specific process is as follows Algorithm 1.
learn how to accurately extract and apply style features from a di-
verse combination of style reference characters. To address this chal-
lenge, we introduce a strategy: first, define a fixed style reference set Algorithm 1: Content-Style Reference Set Mappings with 

{ }

𝑆 = 𝑠1, 𝑠2, 𝑠3,… , 𝑠𝑛  comprising 300 characters. Then design a content- Usage-Based Sorting
style reference mapping to select 𝑘 style reference characters for each Input: 𝐶 = {𝑐𝑖}: High-frequency characters list.
content character. 𝑆 = {𝑠𝑗}: Style reference character list.

𝑇 = {𝑇 𝑝; 𝑇 ℎ}: Chinese character structure component set.
𝐾: Number of style reference characters.

3.3.1.  Decomposition of Chinese characters Output: 𝑈̂ : Content-Style Reference Set.
According to the “Standard for Components and Component Names 2 Initialize:

of Modern Common Characters” issued by the Department of Lan- 𝑆_𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡[𝑠𝑗 ] ← 0, ∀𝑠𝑗 ∈ 𝑆
guage and Information Management of the Ministry of Education of 3 Function mapping(𝑐𝑖, 𝑇̂ ):
the People’s Republic of China and the National Language and Writing 4 𝑅𝑐 ← ∅

𝑖

Work Committee in 2009 (Department of Language Information Man- 5 𝑘 ← 0
6 𝑇

agement, Ministry of Education of the People’s Republic of China, Na- 𝑐 ← 𝑇̂ (𝑐 )
𝑖 𝑖

7 𝑆sorted ← argsort𝑠𝑗∈𝑆 (𝑆_𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡[𝑠𝑗 ])tional Language Commission, 2009), each Chinese character is decom-
posed into a set of components 𝑇 𝑝 and a set of strokes 𝑇 ℎ, forming a 8 for 𝑡𝑙 ∈ 𝑇𝑐  do

𝑖
9 for 𝑠𝑧 ∈ 𝑆sorted do

decomposition set 𝑇  based on the components and strokes of the char- 10 𝑇𝑠 ← 𝑇̂ (𝑠
acter. An example of character decomposition is illustrated in Fig. 2(a). 𝑧 𝑧)

11 for 𝑡𝑚 ∈ 𝑇𝑠  do
During the decomposition process, the components first separated are 𝑧

12 if 𝑡𝑙 = 𝑡𝑚 and 𝑠𝑧 ∉ 𝑅𝑐  then
𝑖

defined as the components set 𝑇 𝑝, and the strokes obtained from further 13 𝑅𝑐 ← 𝑅 ∪ 𝑠
𝑖 𝑐 { }

𝑖 𝑧
decomposition of components are defined as the strokes set 𝑇 ℎ. The com- 14 𝑘 ← 𝑘 + 1
ponents set contains structures that can be more easily transferred from 15 𝑆_𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡[𝑠𝑧] ← 𝑆_𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡[𝑠𝑧] + 1
the style reference set to the target set. The strokes set ensures that each 16 end 
character can choose 𝑘 reference characters from the style reference 17 if 𝑘 ≥ 𝐾 then

18 return 𝑅
set. 𝑐𝑖

119 end 
3.3.2.  20 end 

Content-Style reference mapping 21 end 
We select 2000 commonly used Chinese characters as the content 22 end 

character set 𝐶. According to the principle of shared components, we 23 return 𝑅𝑐
map 𝐾 style reference characters for each content glyph. Specifically, 𝑖

24 return 𝑅𝑐
we first obtain the components set 𝑇 𝑝

𝑐  𝑖
of the content glyph 𝑐𝑖, and then 𝑖 25 Function Main():

obtain the components set 𝑇 𝑝
𝑠  of each character 𝑠𝑧 in the style reference 26 𝑅 ← ∅
𝑧

set 𝑆. In each search step, we search for style reference characters 𝑠 27 for 𝑐𝑖 ∈ 𝐶 do
𝑧

with the same components as 𝑐𝑖 and select them as style reference char- 28 𝑅𝑐 ← mapping(𝑐𝑖, 𝑇 𝑝)
𝑖

acters. If there are fewer than 𝑘 glyphs in the style reference character 29 if Len(𝑅𝑐 ) < 𝐾 then
𝑖

set, the search is performed in the stroke set according to the above 30 𝑅𝑐 ← 𝑅 mapping(𝑐
𝑖 𝑐 ∪ 𝑖, 𝑇 ℎ)

𝑖
31 if Len(𝑅𝑐 ) < 𝐾 then

𝑖
32 𝑆sorted ← argsort𝑠𝑗∈𝑆 (𝑆_𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡[𝑠𝑗 ])
33 𝑅𝑐 ← 𝑅𝑐 ∪ random(𝑆

𝑖 sorted, 𝐾 − Len(𝑅𝑐 ))𝑖 𝑖
34 for 𝑠 ∈ 𝑅𝑐  newly added do

𝑖
35 𝑆_𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡[𝑠] ← 𝑆_𝑐𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡[𝑠] + 1
36 end 
37 end 
38 end 
39 𝑅 ← 𝑅 ∪ {𝑅𝑐 }𝑖
40 end 
41 return 𝑅
42 return 𝑅

3.4.  Fine-grained style aggregation module

As shown in Fig. 5(a), the style of Chinese characters is reflected in 
the deformation of strokes, with short-distance correspondences exist-
ing between each stroke. Based on this observation, we first match each 
content character with the optimal style reference character and propose 
the FGSA module to inject style features into different layers of the U-

Fig. 2. (a) An example of decomposing Chinese characters into component sets Net network’s decoder. FGSA extracts style features from multiple style 
and stroke sets. (b) An example of selecting style reference characters for content reference character images and aggregates these reference styles into a 
characters based on the maximization of components principle. fine-grained style representation for the given content image, enabling 

5 



Y. Liu et al. Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

containing two channels), resulting in the fused feature representation 
𝐹𝑎 ∈ ℝ𝐻×𝑊 ×𝐶 .

2
∑

𝐹𝑎(𝑖, 𝑗, 𝑔) = 𝑊𝑔(𝑘) ⋅ 𝐹𝑐𝑠(𝑖, 𝑗, 2𝑔 − 2 + 𝑘), (13)
𝑘=1

where 𝑊𝑔(𝑘) represents the convolutional kernel weights for the 𝑔th 
channel of the 𝑔th group. 𝐹𝑐𝑠(𝑖, 𝑗, 2𝑔 − 2 + 𝑘) denotes the value of the 
2𝑔 − 2 + 𝑘th channel of the input feature map at position (𝑖, 𝑗).

To achieve feature interaction across different spatial locations in 
𝐹𝑎, we employ a 7 × 7 Depthwise Separable Convolution (DSC) for in-
formation fusion between spatial and channel dimensions. First, a 7 × 7
convolutional kernel is applied to each channel of 𝐹𝑎 individually, facil-

Fig. 3. Structure diagram of the FGSA module. This module extracts style fea- itating spatial information interaction. Subsequently, a 1 × 1 pointwise 
tures from multiple style reference character images and aggregates the refer- convolution performs linear combinations across channels, enabling 
ence styles into the fine-grained style representation for the given content image. inter-channel information fusion. The attention matrix 𝐴 ∈ ℝ𝐻×𝑊 ×𝐶

is generated via a Sigmoid function. Once the attention matrix 𝐴 is 
obtained, it is applied to the Value features 𝐹𝑠 for weighted fusion,the model to learn the extraction and application of specific style fea- aggregating style features. Finally, through a residual connection, the

tures more effectively. resulting feature 𝐹𝑟 retains content information while incorporating Style reference characters obtain style features 𝐹𝑠 containing 𝐾 char- style characteristics.
acters through a style encoder. To aggregate the style features into the 
U-Net decoder, a common approach is to flatten the style features 𝐹𝑠
and content features 𝐹𝑐 into vectors and 

3.5.  Deformable attention content aggregation module
fuse them via a cross-attention 

mechanism (Park et al., 2021b). However, this method significantly in- In the font generation task based on diffusion models, ensuring con-
creases computational complexity when handling high-dimensional fea- sistency in character content while achieving accurate style transfer is 
tures. Moreover, long-distance dependencies can introduce excessive ir- a challenging task (Yu et al., 2024b; Zeng et al., 2021). In the early 
relevant information, diluting attention on key features. stages of sampling, the model inputs images containing a large amount 

We propose a complexity-friendly FGSA module, as illustrated in of noise, making it difficult for the FGSA module to guide the atten-
Fig. 3. We treat the content features 𝐹𝑐 as Query 𝑄 and the style tion mechanism to focus on relevant style features (Fu et al., 2024; 
features 𝐹𝑠 as Key 𝐾. We alternate the concatenation of 𝐹𝑐 and 𝐹𝑠 Yang et al., 2024). As shown in Fig. 4, to appropriately aggregate font 
along the channel dimension to obtain 𝐹𝑐𝑠 ∈ ℝ𝐻×𝑊 ×2𝐶 . Then, we apply 
a 1 × 1 convolution with 𝑐 groups to linearly combine each group content features at different sampling stages and generate font images 

(each with a style consistent with the reference characters, we propose the 

Fig. 4. Schematic diagram of the DACA module. This module injects global and local content features of different scales into the U-Net of the diffusion model.
6 



Y. Liu et al. Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

Fig. 5. (a) Geometric deformations of the same character in two different fonts. Each stroke of the same character has short-distance correspondences. (b) By 
adding offsets to sampling points, the sampling points effectively capture the local correlations between character strokes, thereby better handling subtle geometric 
deformations between different font styles.

DACA module, which injects global and local content features at differ- Specifically, for the 𝑖th layer feature 𝐹𝑥 ∈ ℝ𝐶×𝐻×𝑊  from the U-Net 
ent scales into the U-Net of the diffusion model. encoder, the DACA module is used to inject the content feature 𝐹𝑐 ∈

The content image is first passed through a content encoder 𝐸𝑐 to ex- ℝ𝐶×𝐻×𝑊 . Let the content feature 𝐹𝑐 be used as the Value and Key in 
tract content features at different scales. These features are then injected the attention mechanism, while the feature 𝐹𝑥 is set as the Query. If 𝑅
into the U-Net encoder through three DACA modules. However, when sampling points are used for querying, the computation can be carried 
injecting content features into the U-Net encoder, a key challenge needs out in two steps. First, the feature map 𝐹𝑐 is sampled at 𝑅 points, and 
to be overcome: the content font and the input font belong to different then the sampled values are weighted and summed, with the weight 
styles. For the font style transfer task, there are usually geometric defor- denoted by 𝑊 . For each sampling point, we introduce 𝑀 heads. The 
mations between two fonts of the same character, and each stroke has computation is as follows:
only short-distance correspondences (as shown in Fig. 5(b)). Traditional 𝑀 [ 𝑅 ]

convolutional methods extract features extensively by fixing sampling ∑ ∑

𝐹 ′
locations, but in this scenario, they struggle to accurately capture details 𝑒 (𝑝) 𝑊 𝑚 𝑚( ) ( )

= ℎ 𝑊𝑝 𝑝𝑟 ⋅ 𝐹𝑐 𝑝 + 𝑝𝑟 + Δ𝑝𝑚𝑟 ⋅ 𝐴𝑚
𝑟 , (14)

𝑚=1 𝑟=1
and local variations (Cha et al., 2020; Kong et al., 2022). where 𝑝 represents the spatial coordinates of the current pixel on the 

To address this issue, an effective approach is to introduce de- query feature map; 𝑝𝑟 denotes the relative position offset of the 𝑟th pre-formable convolution (Dai et al., 2017; Xie et al., 2021; Yu et al., 2024b). defined sampling point relative to this coordinate, used to determine the 
By generating dynamic offsets for the convolution kernel sampling posi- position of the local sampling point.
tions, deformable convolution can adaptively adjust the sampling posi- Since there are small-range offsets for each stroke in the character 
tions, allowing for a greater focus on the structural features of the font. 
However, we observed content image and the target image, it is unnecessary to add an offset 

that for a 2 × 2 convolution kernel, its offsets for each individual sampling point 𝑅. Instead, we share a single offset 
only shift within a small range, as shown in Fig. 6. Therefore, adding 
offsets to Δ𝑝 = (Δ𝑥,Δ𝑦) and weight 𝐴 for all the sampling points 𝑅. This can be 

every position in the convolution kernel is unnecessary (Xie represented by Eq. (14):
et al., 2021; Yu et al., 2024b). In contrast, adding a shared offset to the 
entire convolution kernel ensures greater consistency in sampling posi- 𝑀 [ 𝑅 ]

∑ ∑
) ( )

𝐹 ′
tions, thus avoiding the issue of uneven or overlapping sampling point 𝑒 (𝑝) = 𝑊 𝑚 𝑊 𝑚(

𝑝 𝑝𝑟 ⋅ 𝐹𝑐 𝑝 + 𝑝𝑟 + Δ𝑝𝑚 ⋅ 𝐴𝑚 , (15)
𝑚=1 𝑟=1

distribution caused by independent offsets for each kernel position.
where 𝑊 𝑚 is used to integrate features from different heads. The scalar 
attention weight 𝐴𝑚 lies in the range [0, 1], with the initial value set 
to 0.5. By adding offsets to the sampling points, the sampling positions 
can dynamically adjust based on the Key 𝐹𝑐 and Query 𝐹𝑥, which helps 
better handle the subtle geometric deformations between different font 
styles. Specifically, for the Key 𝐹𝑐 and Query 𝐹𝑥 features, we alternately 
arrange them along the channel dimension to obtain 𝐹𝑠 ∈ ℝ𝐻×𝑊 ×2𝐶 . For 
the 𝑖th channel of 𝐹𝑐 , we learn an offset Δ𝑃𝑖 ∈ ℝ2×𝑀×𝐻×𝑊  and weight 
𝐴𝑖Δ𝑃 ∈ ℝ1×𝑀×𝐻×𝑊  at the 2 × 𝑖 − 1 and 2 × 𝑖 channels of 𝐹𝑠. This offset 
guides the query sampling positions, enabling the retrieval of character 
content features from the Value 𝐹𝑐 . The initial value is set to 0.

During the early, high-noise stage of diffusion, outputs remain over-
whelmingly noisy, hindering accurate recovery of character content; 
conversely, injecting too much semantic information in later iterations 

Fig. 6. Visualization of deformable convolution sampling points. Blue points can degrade the reconstructed font’s clarity. To address this, at each 
indicate standard sampling locations; red points denote sampling locations from timestep 𝑡 we first embed 𝑡 and pass it through a multilayer perceptron 
a 2 × 2 deformable convolution, with limited local offsets. (MLP) to predict an adaptive fusion weight 𝛼. This weight governs the 

7 



Y. Liu et al. Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

interpolation between the noisy feature 𝐹𝑥 and the semantic feature 𝐹 ′
𝑒 , those generated characters that showed no significant differences from 

yielding a fused representation: the target font. We then calculated the average number of characters 
𝐹 ′ identified as correct by the 20 experts, and this average value was used 
𝑥 = 𝛼 𝐹 ′

𝑒 + (1 − 𝛼)𝐹𝑥, (16)
as a quantitative metric to assess the quality of the generated characters. 

which is then forwarded to the next layer of the U-Net encoder. This statistical method ensures both the objectivity and reliability of the 
As Δ𝑃 ∈ ℝ2 is an unconstrained two-dimensional real number, we results, while effectively reflecting the performance of each method in 

impose a constraint on Δ𝑃  to better deform the spatial structure of font practical applications.
images in the feature space. This constraint is utilized as a loss function 
during neural network training. 4.2.  Implementation details
offset = 1

‖Δ𝑃‖1, (17)
|𝑅| We used the AdamW optimizer to train the model, with 𝛽1 = 0.9 and 

where Δ𝑃  represents the offset of sampling positions, and  represents 𝛽2 = 0.999. The image size was set to 256 × 256. Moreover, following Ho 
the number of sampling positions. et al. (2020), we simply dropped out the source image and the reference 

Since the offsets 𝑝𝑟 + Δ𝑝𝑚𝑟  are fractional, we employ bilinear inter- image with a probability of 0.1. We trained the model with a batch size 
polation when (

calculating 𝐹 of 16 for 400 epochs on 1800 characters across 250 fonts. The model 
𝑐 𝑝 + 𝑝𝑟 + Δ𝑝𝑚

)

. This allows us to gather in-
formation from the surrounding four points of the sampling position was trained using the PyTorch framework on 4 RTX 4090 GPUs for 60h. 
𝑝 + 𝑝𝑟 + Δ𝑝𝑚, obtaining information on a larger scale. During training, the standard forward diffusion process was used, with 

a total of 𝑇 = 1000 steps.
3.6.  Loss function During the inference phase, we accelerated sampling using DDIM 

(Song et al., 2021), setting the noise scale parameter 𝜂 to 0 to achieve a 
We achieve font generation through denoising diffusion models, and completely deterministic sampling path. We selected time steps from the 

the overall loss function of the proposed training framework is: original 𝑇 = 1000 at regular intervals, setting the interval step size 𝑐 =
10, thus constructing a subsequence 𝜏 of length 100, so that the image 

 = 𝜆MSE MSE + 𝜆off offset + 𝜆𝑐𝑝𝑐𝑝, (18) generation process can be completed using only 100 steps, significantly 
in which, improving inference efficiency. On a single RTX 4090, with a batch size 

[ ]

( ) ( ( )) of 1, and setting the font image to a 256 × 256 resolution, 𝑘 = 3 style 
 ‖

𝑐𝑝 = 𝔼𝑡,𝑥 ‖ 𝑥0 −  𝑥̂
0 0 𝑥𝑡, 𝑡, 𝜃

‖

‖ , (19)
‖ ‖ reference characters, the full diffusion inference time for 100 steps is less 

where (⋅) represents the features obtained by the VGG encoder.  than 2 s. Although our model is not advantageous in terms of inference 
𝑐𝑝

penalizes the inconsistency between the generated image t and the cor- speed and memory usage, the quality of the generated fonts directly 
responding target image in terms of content. determines whether they can truly be put into production. Therefore, 

in both experiments and applications, we always prioritize generation 
4.  Experiment quality.

4.1.  Datasets and evaluation metrics 4.3.  Comparison with state-of-the-art method

4.1.1.  Character dataset In this subsection, we will compare our model with the following 
We selected the top 300 Chinese characters with the highest coverage font generation methods:

according to the structure decomposition table of Chinese characters 
as the style reference character set. Additionally, we selected another 1. CG-GAN (Kong et al., 2022), which separates content and style ef-
2000 Chinese characters based on the frequency of usage in the Modern fectively at a fine-grained level through component-level supervision 
Chinese Commonly Used Character Table as the content character set. and adversarial learning, significantly improving the performance of 

few-shot font generation.
4.1.2.  Font dataset 2. FS-Font (Tang et al., 2022), which enhances performance and style 

We collected a Chinese font dataset consisting of 300 different fonts, consistency by learning fine-grained local styles of reference glyphs 
including standard fonts, calligraphy fonts, and handwritten fonts, to and spatial correspondences between content glyphs and reference 
evaluate the network’s generalization capability on different characters glyphs.
and fonts. We randomly selected 250 fonts (referred to as “Seen Fonts”) 3. CF-Font (Wang et al., 2023a), which projects content features into a 
and 1800 Chinese characters (referred to as “Seen Characters”) as the linear space defined by the content features of base fonts and utilizes 
training set. We evaluated the methods on two test sets: one test set in- the distance between two distributions as the reconstruction loss, ef-
cluded 50 randomly selected seen fonts, containing 200 characters un- fectively improving the accuracy and effectiveness of font style trans-
seen during training (referred to as “SFUC”); the other test set included fer.
50 unseen fonts and 200 unseen characters (referred to as “UFUC”). 4. Diff-Font (He et al., 2024) incorporates additional stroke or com-

ponent inputs as fine-grained conditions to generate fonts using a 
4.1.3.  Evaluation metrics diffusion model.

We evaluated the quality of generated font images through both 5. Fontdiffuser (Yang et al., 2024), which effectively handles complex 
qualitative and quantitative methods. For quantitative evaluation, we characters and large style variations by introducing multi-scale con-
employed four metrics: FID, SSIM, LPIPS, and L1 loss. SSIM and L1 loss tent aggregation blocks and style contrast refinement modules.
at the pixel level evaluate the pixel consistency between target font 6. MSD-Font (Fu et al., 2024) is a multi-stage diffusion model frame-
images and generated font images. LPIPS and FID measure the visual work that efficiently generates stylized font images from limited ref-
similarity between two images, similar to human visual perception, by erence samples by sequentially constructing structure, transferring 
understanding the perceptual differences in image content using deep style, and refining details using a dual-branch network.
learning models.

In order to evaluate the actual effects of different methods in gener- 4.3.1.  Quantitative comparison
ating characters, we designed a user study. Specifically, we invited 20 In the experiments, we conducted quantitative comparisons on the 
experts with extensive font design experience to evaluate 100 charac- SFUC and UFUC test sets separately. Our method outperforms previ-
ters generated by each method. The experts marked as “correct” only ous methods on all metrics from pixel-level to perceptual-level. Overall, 

8 



Y. Liu et al. Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

Table 1 
Quantitative comparison on SFUC and UFUC datasets.

 SFUC  UFUC
Methods

 L1 ↓  SSIM ↑  FID ↓  LPIPS ↓  User ↑  L1 ↓  SSIM ↑  FID ↓  LPIPS ↓  User ↑
 CG-GAN (Kong et al., 2022)  0.0725  0.501  95.21  0.1801  12.2  0.0778  0.485  99.34  0.2021  7.2
 CF-Font (Wang et al., 2023a)  0.0701  0.522  91.43  0.1678  11.2  0.0742  0.501  93.43  0.1878  9.2
 FS-Font (Tang et al., 2022)  0.0688  0.544  88.67  0.1586  21.3  0.0765  0.524  92.67  0.1726  8.7
 Diff-Font (He et al., 2024)  0.0643  0.591  79.45  0.1456  31.2  0.0693  0.561  81.45  0.1563  30.8
 Fontdiffuser (Yang et al., 2024)  0.0601  0.617  72.54  0.1324  57.5  0.0621  0.597  73.54  0.1344  51.5
 MSD-Font (Fu et al., 2024)  0.0559  0.672  53.23  0.1123  65.4  0.0589  0.689  55.23  0.1423  63.4
 Ours  0.0481  0.719  46.23  0.0917  69.5  0.0497  0.728  48.01  0.1102  66.5

diffusion-based font generation methods outperform GAN-based meth- generalization. The accuracy of CG-GAN (Kong et al., 2022) and CF-Font 
ods. The diffusion model decomposes the learning process into a step-by- (Wang et al., 2023a) in generating font images significantly decreases. 
step denoising maximum likelihood estimation, with the loss function This phenomenon indicates that simply increasing the complexity of the 
being mean squared error (Dhariwal & Nichol, 2021; Ho et al., 2020). network is not sufficient to address the complex challenges in font gen-
There is no zero-sum game between the generator and the discrimina- eration. FS-Font (Tang et al., 2022) remains relatively stable due to its 
tor, thus avoiding issues such as gradient vanishing or explosion and learning of styles across multiple characters.Diff-Font (He et al., 2024) 
mode collapse. Additionally, our model receives content and style fea- incorporates strokes or components as fine-grained condition inputs; 
tures at each time step through the FGSA and DACA modules, achieving however, this method fails to fully capture rich style features, leading 
step-by-step fusion from coarse to fine. Compared to GANs, which de- to poorer performance in user evaluations compared to other diffusion-
termine both shape and style in a single forward step, this multi-stage based methods. MSD-Font (Fu et al., 2024) experiences significant per-
conditional injection provides self-correction opportunities for subse- formance degradation when generating unseen fonts due to the cumu-
quent sampling, gradually eliminating early noise or local errors, further lative errors across multiple stages.
enhancing the model’s training stability and multi-style font generation 
capability. 4.3.2.  Qualitative comparison

As shown in Table 1, the performance of other methods signif- In the experiments, we conducted qualitative comparisons on the 
icantly drops in the UFUC and SFUC settings, indicating their lim- SFUC and UFUC settings separately. We selected ten different fonts, in-
ited generalization capability when dealing with new fonts. In con- cluding print fonts, calligraphy fonts, and handwritten fonts, to evaluate 
trast, our method exhibits only slight degradation, demonstrating strong the performance of all compared methods on different fonts. For each 

Fig. 7. Qualitative comparison on SFUC and UFUC. Our method exhibits significant advantages in generating complex characters and handling substantial style 
variations.

9 



Y. Liu et al. Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

font, we showcase three simple characters and two complex characters 
to comprehensively evaluate the effects of each compared method.

As shown in Fig. 7, in the SFUC setting, CG-GAN (Kong et al., 2022) 
and CF-Font (Wang et al., 2023a) can only generate simple characters, 
and when the character strokes are complex, the generated character im-
ages contain unreasonable structures. FS-Font (Tang et al., 2022) gener-
ated characters can maintain the complete structure. However, for fonts 
with more complex strokes, the generated character images have miss-
ing strokes. Diff-Font (He et al., 2024) and Fontdiffuser (Yang et al., 
2024) can generate characters that are close to the target, but they suf-
fer from issues like stroke adhesion and blurring. MSD-Font (Fu et al., 
2024) can also generate characters close to the target, but it lacks rich 
font details.

As shown in Fig. 7, in the UFUC setting. The characters generated by 
CG-GAN (Kong et al., 2022), CF-Font (Wang et al., 2023a), and FS-Font 
(Tang et al., 2022) have incomplete structures. The characters gener-
ated by Diff-Font (He et al., 2024), Fontdiffuser (Yang et al., 2024), 
and MSD-Font (Fu et al., 2024) suffer from issues like stroke adhesion Fig. 8. We visually compare two fonts. We overlay the generated font images 
and blurring, making it impossible to clearly recover the details of un- with real font images, showing only minor differences between the generated 
seen fonts.Our method demonstrates significant advantages in generat- font images and the real ones.
ing complex characters and handling substantial style variations, while 
other methods still exhibit issues such as missing strokes, blurriness, and 
inconsistent styles. are shown in Table 2, where the model with the added FGSA module 

Analysis combining Table 1 and Fig. 7 shows that learning the spa- performs better on pixel-level evaluation metrics such as L1 and SSIM. 
tial correspondence between content glyphs and reference glyphs (FS- However, FID, LPIPS, and user studies provide stronger evidence of its 
Font Tang et al., 2022) is more effective than supervision through effectiveness.
component-level information (CG-GAN (Kong et al., 2022)). The intro-
duction of font component information as fine-grained conditions (Diff- 4.4.2.  The effectiveness of DACA
Font He et al., 2024) results in higher font quality generated by the The DACA module is mainly used to maintain the structural integrity 
diffusion model compared to using only component information. This of characters during style conversion. As shown in Table 2, there is 
indicates that the diffusion model is more likely to generate high-quality a slight improvement in FID and LPIPS evaluation metrics, indicating 
font images. MSD-Font (Fu et al., 2024), through a multi-stage diffusion minimal visual perceptual differences in the generated font images and 
model framework, first completes structural construction, style transfer, minor impacts on style. However, there is a significant improvement 
and detail optimization sequentially, efficiently generating stylized font in L1, SSIM, and user studies, suggesting that the character structure is 
images. This fully demonstrates the importance of restoring character more complete. Additionally, Fig. 9 provides more intuitive results.
structure in the early stages of iteration. Additionally, we compared the impact of no attention, global atten-

Our method, through an adaptive fusion parameter-controlled con- tion, and deformable attention on the quality of generated fonts. The 
tent aggregation module and style aggregation module, strengthens con- results, as shown in Table 3, reveal that the attention mechanism has 
tent guidance to aggregate style features in the early noise-dominant 
phase, while weakening content injection in the later stages when clean Table 2 
signals dominate. It shows significant advantages under both the SFUC Effectiveness ablation experiments of FGSA and DACA modules.
and UFUC test settings. Our method clearly alleviates issues such as 
stroke missing, stroke sticking, and font detail loss Evaluation  Effectiveness of FGSA  Effectiveness of DACA

in generated char- metrics
acters.  w/o FGSA  w/ FGSA  w/o DACA  w/ DACA

 L1 ↓  0.0552  0.0492  0.0583  0.0486
4.3.3.  Visually compare  SSIM ↑  0.664  0.721  0.628  0.718

To better demonstrate the consistency between the font images gen-  FID ↓  62.82  47.45  54.67  47.64
erated by our method and the real font images, we compare them by  LPIPS ↓  0.1243  0.0926  0.1132  0.0938

 User ↑  57.4  68.2  55.6  68.8
overlaying the real font images onto the generated font images for five 
fonts of different thicknesses. As shown in Fig. 8, the font images gener- Table 3 
ated by our method exhibit only minor differences compared to the real 
font images, indicating excellent performance in font image generation. Effects of various attention mechanisms on the quality of generated 

fonts.
As shown in Fig. 8, our method exhibits excellent performance in font 
generation tasks with different stroke thicknesses. The generated font  Attention  L1 ↓  SSIM ↑  FID ↓  LPIPS ↓
images only show slight differences compared to real font images, fully  w/o Attention  0.0583  0.628  54.67  0.1132
indicating that the method is capable of generating family fonts with  Global Attention  0.0475  0.721  47.54  0.0901
various stroke thicknesses.  w/ FGSA  0.0481  0.719  46.23  0.0917

4.4.  Ablation studies Table 4 
Effect of different fusion functions on reconstruction quality.

4.4.1.  The effectiveness of FGSA  Method  L1 ↓  SSIM ↑  FID ↓  LPIPS ↓
To validate the effectiveness of the proposed FGSA module, we com- 𝛼 = 0  0.0601  0.617  56.78  0.1285

pared the performance of two models: one with the FGSA module added 𝛼 = 1  0.0533  0.643  51.56  0.1133
and the other with the FGSA module removed. After removing the FGSA 𝛼 = 𝑥2  0.0519  0.691  49.89  0.1095
module, we concatenated the style features with the decoder features, 𝛼 = 𝑒− ln(100)⋅𝑥  0.0581  0.608  53.83  0.1202
while keeping other settings unchanged. The quantitative comparisons  Adaptive 𝛼  0.0489  0.711  47.92  0.0951

10 



Y. Liu et al. Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

Fig. 9. Validation of the effectiveness of the DACA module. The module better preserves the structural integrity of characters, especially in terms of details.

In addition, we also tested several commonly used functions, includ-
ing linear functions, constant functions, quadratic functions, exponen-
tial functions, and trigonometric functions, as shown in Fig. 11. We per-
formed a quantitative analysis on these six functions and the 𝛼 learned 
through MLP. The experimental results are shown in Table 4. Among 
all the functions, focusing on content-guided features in the early stages 
yields better results compared to focusing on noise features. This indi-
rectly confirms that noise features are ineffective in aggregating style. 
While carefully designed fusion functions have the potential to achieve 
better results, using adaptive fusion is a simpler and more efficient ap-
proach.

4.5.  Analysis

Fig. 10. Fusion parameter visualization. 4.5.1.  The influence of DACA hyperparameters on generated font quality
Within the proposed DACA module, we set two hyperparameters: 

the number of sampling points 𝑟 and the attention heads 𝑚. To in-
vestigate the impact of 𝑟 and 𝑚 on the quality of generated fonts, 
we conducted an experiment by setting different numbers of sampling 
points and attention heads, respectively, and trained and evaluated the 
model under the same training data and other hyperparameter set-
tings. The results are shown in Fig. 12. We chose 𝑟 = 4 sampling points. 

Fig. 11. Fusion function.

a significant impact on font generation quality, with all four metrics 
significantly improved after introducing the attention mechanism. Our 
method achieved experimental results comparable to those of global at-
tention, but with only linear-level computational overhead, avoiding the 
quadratic computational complexity (𝑁2) of global cross-attention.

4.4.3.  Fusion parameter analysis
We visualize the values of the fusion parameter 𝛼 at different sam-

pling stages. As shown in Fig. 10, in the early stages of sampling, the 
value of 𝛼 is relatively large, indicating that the model tends to rely on 
content-guided character aggregation for style features. In later stages, 
the value of 𝛼 gradually decreases, suggesting that the model increas- Fig. 12. Effects of different numbers of sampling points and attention heads on 
ingly depends on the reconstructed content-aggregated style features. generated font quality.

11 



Y. Liu et al. Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

Table 5 
Quantitative comparison of the influence of fixed and randomly selected style 
reference characters on style learning ability.

Random style reference Fixed style reference 
Method

characters characters

 L1 ↑  SSIM ↓  L1 ↑  SSIM ↓
 CG-GAN (Kong et al., 2022)  0.0732  0.512  0.0711  0.532
 CF-Font (Wang et al., 2023a)  0.0713  0.523  0.0692  0.542
 FS-Font (Tang et al., 2022)  0.0694  0.574  0.0673  0.541
 Diff-Font (He et al., 2024)  0.0653  0.596  0.0632  0.622
 Fontdiffuser (Yang et al., 2024)  0.0611  0.612  0.0562  0.685
 MSD-Font (Fu et al., 2024)  0.0553  0.671  0.0512  0.688
 Ours  0.0514  0.683  0.0486  0.714

4.5.3.  Visualization of FGSA module
To validate the effectiveness of the FGSA module, we demonstrate 

attention feature maps. As depicted in Fig. 13, we illustrate attention 
feature maps of two different difficulty characters on four font styles, 
showing that the proposed style aggregation module enables the model 
to focus on correct component-level styles within style reference char-
acters and to extract fine-grained local style representations for content.

4.5.4.  Backward process: FGSA attention and font quality
To verify the font image generation quality at different time steps 

Fig. 13. Visualization of the FGSA Module. during the backward process and the attention capability of the FGSA 
module for font structural details, we demonstrate the generated font 
images and the attention feature maps of the FGSA module at different 

Although better results can be achieved at 𝑟 = 6, this requires more time steps on two fonts.
parameters. We selected 𝑚 = 3 attention heads. As the number of at- The experimental results are shown in Fig. 14. At step 0, the model 
tention heads and sampling points increases, the complexity of the outputs an image containing a significant amount of noise. At this stage, 
model significantly rises, leading to a deterioration in the quality of the FGSA module uses content characters to guide the FGSA module’s 
generation. attention to the overall structure of the characters. During the iteration 

process, the fusion coefficient 𝛼 gradually decreases to suppress the in-
jection of content features by the DACA module. At this point, the FGSA 

4.5.2.  Effect of different style inputs module is guided by the reconstructed font image, and the attention 
To verify the effectiveness of the proposed style-content refer- focuses on the component-level features of the characters, while gradu-

ence mapping in enhancing style learning and content retention abil- ally improving the quality of the generated fonts. In the later stages of 
ities, a quantitative comparison was conducted between the effects iteration, the FGSA module clearly guides the attention to focus on the 
of fixed style reference characters and randomly selected style ref- common component parts.
erence characters. As shown in Table 5, compared to randomly
selected style reference characters, fixed style reference characters out- 4.6.  Extended experiments
perform on all the evaluation metrics. The fixed style reference char-
acter set provides the model with a stable and representative set 4.6.1.  Transferring arbitrary font styles
of style samples, aiding the model in more effectively learning style Our model is capable of generating fonts with arbitrary style-content 
features. combinations. For qualitative and quantitative comparisons, we train 

Fig. 14. Font image generation results at different iteration steps and FGSA module attention feature maps.

12 



Y. Liu et al. Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

Fig. 15. Multiple-to-Multiple character transformation. Our model can transform font styles between any two fonts.

Fig. 16. Validation experiment on pseudo-characters obtained through manual manipulation. (a) Validation of content effectiveness. (b) Validation of style effec-
tiveness.

Fig. 17. Transferring Chinese font styles to Japanese and Korean fonts.

the model using Song typeface to maintain consistency with other meth- strokes of Chinese characters, we create some unseen pseudo-characters, 
ods. To verify the influence of different style content font combinations which are used as content and style characters separately.
on the generation quality, we train the model using randomly selected First, we use pseudo-characters as content characters and conduct 
content and style font combinations. As shown in Fig. 15, we can gen- experiments on three different font styles. The experimental results in 
erate character images with specified styles and content, regardless of Fig. 16(a) show excellent content consistency, indicating that our con-
the style of content fonts. tent encoder is a universal network capable of effectively capturing char-

acter content, irrespective of stroke layout, character recognizability, 
and other factors. Next, we use pseudo-characters as style characters 

4.6.2.  Pseudo-Chinese character experiment and normal characters as content characters. The generated results, as 
In the pseudo-Chinese character experiment, to validate whether our shown in Fig. 16(b), exhibit the same font style as the style charac-

method explicitly separates content and style, we conduct a pseudo- ters, regardless of whether the stroke of the style characters is complete. 
character verification experiment. By changing or removing some These experiments on pseudo-characters strongly demonstrate that our 

13 



Y. Liu et al. Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

4.6.4.  Generation of multiple style fonts
The above experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the method 

proposed in this paper for font generation. This section further show-
cases the generation results on a greater variety of font styles. As shown 
in Fig. 19, by comparing the target fonts with the generated fonts, it can 
be seen that the method proposed in this paper achieves good results 
in generating fonts with different styles, proving that the method has 
strong generalization ability and can adapt well to various font styles.

5.  Limitations

As depicted in Fig. 20(a), due to the morphological similarity of 
Fig. 18. Transferring Chinese font styles to Arabic and Indic scripts. many strokes, transitions from one font style to another can be consid-

ered as variations of the same stroke style. This may result in different 
stroke categories being misidentified as the same category, leading to 

model is capable of inference rather than memorization of existing data erroneous stroke generation. As shown in Fig. 20(b), our method fails 
distributions. to handle irregular calligraphy fonts. This is primarily because the same 

stroke in calligraphy fonts has inconsistent forms across different charac-
4.6.3.  Cross-language font generation ters, making it difficult to learn stable style features. We hope to address 

Most font generation methods focus only on converting font styles these issues in future work.
within the same language. However, in many languages similar to Chi-
nese, different styles may exist due to cultural variations. Expanding 6.  Conclusion
Chinese font styles to other languages enriches their font styles. To vali-
date the ability of our method in cross-language style transfer, we utilize In this paper, we propose a diffusion-based image-to-image font gen-
our method to learn styles from Chinese characters and transfer them to eration method capable of generating fonts with arbitrary style-content 
characters in other languages. combinations. Specifically, we set a small character set as the style ref-

In the experiment, Japanese and Korean fonts are used as the font erence set and match the best style reference character for each Chinese 
content images, while Chinese fonts serve as the style images. As shown character based on the proposed content-style reference mapping. We 
in Fig. 17, our method can generate Japanese and Korean fonts consis- further propose the FGSA module to transfer styles from multiple refer-
tent with Chinese font styles. High-quality cross-language style transfer ence characters to the content character. We also introduce the DACA 
contributes to the advancement of cross-language font generation and module, which utilizes an offset-enhanced multi-head Attention Mecha-
offers more possibilities for font design and applications. nism to handle geometric deformations between fonts, ensuring consis-

To further validate the cross-script generalization ability, we addi- tency in character content during iterative denoising.
tionally constructed Arabic and Indian font datasets, each containing The experimental results show that, compared to GAN models, the 
50 common fonts, with 100 characters per font. As shown in Fig. 18, diffusion model’s step-by-step denoising mechanism can self-correct 
the experimental results indicate that despite significant structural dif- content and style in each iteration to generate high-quality Chinese 
ferences in strokes between Arabic, Indian, and East Asian scripts, our fonts. By fixing the style character set, a balanced and representative 
method can still robustly separate “content” and “style” and synthesize sample distribution is provided for component-level style learning. The 
high-quality cross-script fonts without introducing any domain adapta- proposed DACA injects multi-scale content features in the early stages 
tion strategies. of iteration to guide the FGSA module to focus on the overall style 

Fig. 19. The generation results of different style fonts using the method in this paper.
14 



Y. Liu et al. Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

Fig. 20. (a) Some strokes of the fonts may contain errors due to the similarity of certain strokes, leading to misidentification. (b) The same stroke in calligraphy 
fonts does not have a consistent form across different characters.

of the character. As the fusion coefficient gradually decreases to sup- Dai, J., Qi, H., Xiong, Y., Li, Y., Zhang, G., Hu, H., & Wei, Y. (2017). Deformable convo-
press content information, the generated font image aggregates the style. lutional networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision 
The proposed DACA and FGSA modules, in collaboration with the de- (pp. 764–773). https://doi.org/10.1109/iccv.2017.89

Department of Language Information Management, Ministry of Education of the Peo-
noising process of the diffusion model, significantly enhance the qual- ple’s Republic of China, National Language Commission (2009). Specification of com-
ity of Chinese font image generation. Extensive experiments demon- monly used Chinese character components and component names (GF 0014-2009). 
strate the effectiveness of our method. Additionally, its applicability in https://www.moe.gov.cn/jyb_sjzl/ziliao/A19/201001/t20100115_75696.html.

Dhariwal, P., & Nichol, A. (2021). Diffusion models beat gans on image synthesis. Advances 
cross-language font generation tasks is verified. The proposed method in Neural Information Processing Systems, 34, 8780–8794. 
is an important application for font designers and personalized font Fu, B., Yu, F., Liu, A., Wang, Z., Wen, J., He, J., & Qiao, Y. (2024). Generate like experts: 
users. Multi-stage font generation by incorporating font transfer process into diffusion mod-

els. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition 
(pp. 6892–6901). https://doi.org/10.1109/cvpr52733.2024.00658

CRediT authorship contribution statement Gao, S., Liu, X., Zeng, B., Xu, S., Li, Y., Luo, X., Liu, J., Zhen, X., & Zhang, B. (2023). Im-
plicit diffusion models for continuous super-resolution. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF 
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 10021–10030). https://doi.

Yu Liu: Conceptualization, Methodology, Writing – original draft; org/10.1109/CVPR52729.2023.00966
Yang Ding: Data curation, Formal analysis, Visualization; Fatimah Gao, Y., Guo, Y., Lian, Z., Tang, Y., & Xiao, J. (2019). Artistic glyph image synthesis 
Binti Khalid: Software, Validation; Cunrui Wang: Supervision, Project via one-stage few-shot learning. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 38(6), 1–12. 

https://doi.org/10.1145/3355089.3356574
administration, Funding acquisition, Writing – review & editing; Lei Gao, Y., & Wu, J. (2020). Gan-based unpaired chinese character image translation via 
Wang: Investigation, Resources. skeleton transformation and stroke rendering. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference 

on artificial intelligence (pp. 646–653). (vol. 34). https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.v34i01.
5405

Data availability Goodfellow, Ian J., Pouget-Abadie, J., Mirza, M., Xu, B., Warde-Farley, D., Ozair, S., 
Courville, A., & Bengio, Y. (2014). Generative adversarial nets. In Z.Ghahramani, 

Data will be made available on request. M.Welling, C.Cortes, N.Lawrence, & K.Q.Weinberger (Eds.), Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems (pp. 1–9). (vol. 27). Curran Associates, Inc. 

Hassan, A. U., Ahmed, H., & Choi, J. (2021). Unpaired font family synthesis using 
Declaration of competing interest conditional generative adversarial networks. Knowledge-Based Systems, 229, 107304. 

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2021.107304
He, H., Chen, X., Wang, C., Liu, J., Du, B., Tao, D., & Yu, Q. (2024). Diff-font: Diffusion 

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial model for robust one-shot font generation. International Journal of Computer Vision, (pp. 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 1–15). 132(11). https://doi.org/10.1007/s11263-024-02137-0

Ho, J., Jain, A., & Abbeel, P. (2020). Denoising diffusion probabilistic models. Advances 
the work reported in this paper. in Neural Information Processing Systems, 33, 6840–6851. 

Huang, Y., He, M., Jin, L., & Wang, Y. (2020). Rd-gan: Few/zero-shot chinese character 
Acknowledgements style transfer via radical decomposition and rendering. In Computer vision–ECCV 2020: 

16th European conference, Glasgow, UK, August 23–28, 2020, proceedings, part VI 16
(pp. 156–172). Springer. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-58539-6_10

This study was supported in part by Liaoning Provincial Science and Hwang, J.-S., Lee, S.-H., & Lee, S.-W. (2024). Hiddensinger: High-quality singing voice syn-
Technology Plan Joint Program (Technology R&D Program Project) un- thesis via neural audio codec and latent diffusion models. Neural Networks, (p. 106762). 

(vol. 181). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neunet.2024.106762
der Grants 2024JH2/102600108, the Science and Technology Innova- Isola, P., Zhu, J.-Y., Zhou, T., & Efros, A. A. (2017). Image-to-image translation with con-
tion Fundation of Dalian under Grant 2023JJ12GX026, and in part by ditional adversarial networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision 
the Foundation of Key Laboratory of Education Informatization for Na- and pattern recognition (pp. 1125–1134). https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR.2017.632

Jia, C., Yang, Y., Xia, Y., Chen, Y.-T., Parekh, Z., Pham, H., Le, Q., Sung, Y.-H., Li, Z., & 
tionalities (Yunnan Normal University, Ministry of Education.) under Duerig, T. (2021). Scaling up visual and vision-language representation learning with 
Grant EIN2024B002. noisy text supervision. In International conference on machine learning (pp. 4904–4916). 

PMLR. 
Jiang, Y., Lian, Z., Tang, Y., & Xiao, J. (2019). Scfont: Structure-guided chinese font

References generation via deep stacked networks. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on arti-
ficial intelligence (pp. 4015–4022). AAAI Press. https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.v33i01.

Bhunia, A. K., Khan, S., Cholakkal, H., Anwer, R. M., Khan, F. S., & Shah, M. (2021). 33014015
Handwriting transformers. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on Kim, M., & Choi, H.-C. (2021). Uncorrelated feature encoding for faster image style trans-
computer vision (pp. 1086–1094). https://doi.org/10.1109/iccv48922.2021.00112 fer. Neural Networks, 140, 148–157. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neunet.2021.03.007

Cha, J., Chun, S., Lee, G., Lee, B., Kim, S., & Lee, H. (2020). Few-shot compositional Ko, K., Yeom, T., & Lee, M. (2023). Superstargan: Generative adversarial networks for 
font generation with dual memory. In Computer vision – ECCV 2020 (pp. 735–751). image-to-image translation in large-scale domains. Neural Networks, 162, 330–339. 
Springer. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-58529-7_43 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neunet.2023.02.042

15 



Y. Liu et al. Expert Systems With Applications 296 (2026) 128987 

Kong, Y., Luo, C., Ma, W., Zhu, Q., Zhu, S., Yuan, N., & Jin, L. (2022). Look closer Wang, L., Liu, Y., Sharum, M. Y., Yaako, R. B., Kasmiranm, K. A., & Wang, C. (2025). 
to supervise better: One-shot font generation via component-based discriminator. Deep learning for chinese font generation: A survey. Expert Systems with Applications, 
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (p. 127105). (vol. 276). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2025.127105
(pp. 13482–13491). https://doi.org/10.1109/cvpr52688.2022.01312 Wang, Y., Wang, Y., Yu, L., Zhu, Y., & Lian, Z. (2023b). Deepvecfont-v2: Exploiting 

Lei, W., Cunrui, W., & Yu, L. (2025). Ehw-font: A handwriting enhancement approach transformers to synthesize vector fonts with higher quality. In Proceedings of the 
mimicking human writing processes. Expert Systems with Applications, (p. 127278). IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 18320–18328). 
(vol. 278). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2025.127278 https://doi.org/10.1109/cvpr52729.2023.01757

Li, J., Li, D., Xiong, C., & Hoi, S. (2022). Blip: Bootstrapping language-image pre-training Wen, C., Pan, Y., Chang, J., Zhang, Y., Chen, S., Wang, Y., Han, M., & Tian, Q. 
for unified vision-language understanding and generation. In International conference (2021a). Handwritten chinese font generation with collaborative stroke refinement. 
on machine learning (pp. 12888–12900). PMLR. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF winter conference on applications of computer vision

Liu, M.-Y., Huang, X., Mallya, A., Karras, T., Aila, T., Lehtinen, J., & Kautz, J. (2019). (pp. 3882–3891). https://doi.org/10.1109/WACV48630.2021.00393
Few-shot unsupervised image-to-image translation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF in- Wen, Q., Li, S., Han, B., & Yuan, Y. (2021b). Zigan: Fine-grained chinese calligraphy font 
ternational conference on computer vision (pp. 10551–10560). generation via a few-shot style transfer approach. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM in-

Liu, X., Meng, G., Chang, J., Hu, R., Xiang, S., & Pan, C. (2022). Decoupled representation ternational conference on multimedia (pp. 621–629). https://doi.org/10.1145/3474085.
learning for character glyph synthesis. IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, 24, 1787–1799. 3475225
https://doi.org/10.1109/tmm.2021.3072449 Xie, Y., Chen, X., Sun, L., & Lu, Y. (2021). Dg-font: Deformable generative networks for 

Liu, Y., Fatimah, B. K., Wang, L., Zhang, Y., & Wang, C. (2024). Elegantly written: Dis- unsupervised font generation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF winter conference on ap-
entangling writer and character styles for enhancing online chinese handwriting. In plications of computer vision (pp. 735–751). IEEE. https://doi.org/10.1109/cvpr46437.
European conference on computer vision (pp. 409–425). Springer. https://doi.org/10. 2021.00509
1007/978-3-031-73242-3_23 Yang, Y., Huang, W., Wei, Y., Peng, H., Jiang, X., Jiang, H., Wei, F., Wang, Y., Hu, H., 

Liu, Y., & Lian, Z. (2024). Deepcallifont: Few-shot chinese calligraphy font synthesis by Qiu, L. et al. (2023). Attentive mask clip. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international 
integrating dual-modality generative models. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on conference on computer vision (pp. 2771–2781). https://doi.org/10.1109/iccv51070.
artificial intelligence (pp. 3774–3782). (vol. 38). https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.v38i4. 2023.00260
28168 Yang, Z., Peng, D., Kong, Y., Zhang, Y., Yao, C., & Jin, L. (2024). Fontdiffuser: One-

Park, S., Chun, S., Cha, J., Lee, B., & Shim, H. (2021a). Few-shot font generation with shot font generation via denoising diffusion with multi-scale content aggregation and 
localized style representations and factorization. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference style contrastive learning. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence
on artificial intelligence (pp. 2393–2402). AAAI Press. https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai. (pp. 6603–6611). (vol. 38). https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.v38i7.28482
v35i3.16340 Yao, M., Zhang, Y., Lin, X., Li, X., & Zuo, W. (2024). Vq-font: Few-shot font generation with 

Park, S., Chun, S., Cha, J., Lee, B., & Shim, H. (2021b). Multiple heads are better than structure-aware enhancement and quantization. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference 
one: Few-shot font generation with multiple localized experts. In Proceedings of the on artificial intelligence (pp. 16407–16415). (vol. 38). https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.
IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision (pp. 13900–13909). https://doi. v38i15.29577
org/10.1109/iccv48922.2021.01364 Yi, Z., Zhang, H., Tan, P., & Gong, M. (2017). Dualgan: Unsupervised dual learning for 

Peebles, W., & Xie, S. (2023). Scalable diffusion models with transformers. In Proceedings image-to-image translation. In Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on com-
of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision (pp. 4195–4205). https:// puter vision (pp. 2849–2857). https://doi.org/10.1109/iccv.2017.310
doi.org/10.1109/iccv51070.2023.00387 Yu, L., Fatimah, B. K., Mas Rina, B. M., & Azreen, B. A. (2024a). Dual-modality learning 

Qi, T., Fang, S., Wu, Y., Xie, H., Liu, J., Chen, L., He, Q., & Zhang, Y. (2024). Deadiff: An and transformer-based approach for high-quality vector font generation. Expert Systems 
efficient stylization diffusion model with disentangled representations. Proceedings of with Applications, 240, 122405. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2023.122405
the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition. https://doi.org/10. Yu, L., Fatimah, B. K., Wang, C., Mas Rina, B. M., & Azreen, B. A. (2024b). An end-to-end 
1109/cvpr52733.2024.00830 chinese font generation network with stroke semantics and deformable attention skip-

Rombach, R., Blattmann, A., Lorenz, D., Esser, P., & Ommer, B. (2022). High-resolution connection. Expert Systems with Applications, 237, 121407. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference eswa.2023.121407
on computer vision and pattern recognition (pp. 10684–10695). https://doi.org/10.1101/ Zeng, J., Chen, Q., Liu, Y., Wang, M., & Yao, Y. (2021). StrokeGAN: Reducing mode col-
2022.11.18.517004 lapse in chinese font generation via stroke encoding. In Proceedings of the AAAI con-

Saharia, C., Chan, W., Saxena, S., Li, L., Whang, J., Denton, E. L., Ghasemipour, K., Gon- ference on artificial intelligence (pp. 3270–3277). https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.v35i4.
tijo Lopes, R., Karagol Ayan, B., Salimans, T. et al. (2022). Photorealistic text-to-image 16438
diffusion models with deep language understanding. Advances in Neural Information Zeng, S., & Pan, Z. (2022). An unsupervised font style transfer model based on generative 
Processing Systems, 35, 36479–36494. adversarial networks. Multimedia Tools and Applications, 81(4), 5305–5324. https://

Sohl-Dickstein, J., Weiss, E., Maheswaranathan, N., & Ganguli, S. (2015). Deep unsuper- doi.org/10.1007/s11042-021-11777-0
vised learning using nonequilibrium thermodynamics. In International conference on Zhang, Y., Tian, Y., & Hou, J. (2023). Csast: Content self-supervised and style contrastive 
machine learning (pp. 2256–2265). PMLR. learning for arbitrary style transfer. Neural Networks, 164, 146–155. https://doi.org/

Song, J., Meng, C., & Ermon, S. (2021). Denoising diffusion implicit models. In International 10.1016/j.neunet.2023.04.037
conference on learning representations (ICLR). Zhang, Y., Zhang, Y., & Cai, W. (2018). Separating style and content for generalized style 

Tang, L., Cai, Y., Liu, J., Hong, Z., Gong, M., Fan, M., Han, J., Liu, J., Ding, E., & Wang, J. transfer. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF winter conference on applications of computer 
(2022). Few-shot font generation by learning fine-grained local styles. In Proceedings vision (pp. 8447–8455). IEEE. https://doi.org/10.1109/cvpr.2018.00881
of the IEEE/CVF winter conference on applications of computer vision (pp. 7895–7904). Zhu, J.-Y., Park, T., Isola, P., & Efros, A. A. (2017). Unpaired image-to-image translation 
IEEE. https://doi.org/10.1109/cvpr52688.2022.00774 using cycle-consistent adversarial networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE international con-

Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones, L., Gomez, A. N., Kaiser, Ł., & ference on computer vision (pp. 2223–2232). https://doi.org/10.1109/iccv.2017.244
Polosukhin, I. (2017). Attention is all you need. Advances in Neural Information Pro- Zhu, Y., Li, Z., Wang, T., He, M., & Yao, C. (2023). Conditional text image generation 
cessing Systems (pp. 1–11). (vol. 30). with diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision 

Wang, C., Zhou, M., Ge, T., Jiang, Y., Bao, H., & Xu, W. (2023a). Cf-font: Content fusion and pattern recognition (pp. 14235–14245). https://doi.org/10.1109/cvpr52729.2023.
for few-shot font generation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer 01368
vision and pattern recognition (pp. 1858–1867). https://doi.org/10.1109/cvpr52729.
2023.00185

16